cloud-aws/aws-commands.md, before:

# AWS Commands

## Authentication

### Access Key

Create Access Key

```
aws iam create-access-key    #for current user
aws iam create-access-key --user-name <user name>
```

Configure local variables

```
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<access key>"
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<key id>"
```

Alternatively these variables can be configured by running the following command on the local machine

```
aws configure
```

### Session Token

Create Session Token

```
aws sts get-session-token    #for current user
aws sts get-session-token --user-name <user name>
```

Configure local variables

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<access key>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<secret key>"
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN="<session token>"
```

### Assume Role

#### Gain temporary access to a resource

CLI Command. The session name is arbitrary and is requested only for logging purposes.

```
aws sts assume-role --role-arn <role arn> --role-session-name <session name>
```

Obtain temporary access to ECS instance. To be executed within the target instance

```
curl 169.254.170.2$AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI
```

Generate temporary credentials for Cloudshell instance. To be executed within the Cloudshell session. These credentials can be used to grant access to the shell to other users or services.

```
curl $AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_FULL_URI -H "X-aws-ec2-metadata-token: $AWS_CONTAINER_AUTHORIZATION_TOKEN" 
```

After obtaining the credentials update the local environment

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<access key>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<secret key>"
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN="<session token>"
```

## Access Control

### Accounts

Create account

```
aws iam create-login-profile --user <username>
```

Change password

```
aws iam update-login-profile --user <IAM> --password '<password>'
```

### Granting access

Set password for AWS Console Access. If not present the IAM User is not allowed to login to AWS Dashboard and use GUI based services

```
aws iam update-login-profile --user <IAM> --password '<password>'
```

### Manage Access Keys

Enable/disable keys

```
aws iam update-access-key --access-key-id <key id> --status Active
aws iam update-access-key --access-key-id <key id> --status Inactive
```

Delete key

```
aws iam delete-access-key --access-key-id <key id>
```

## Buckets

### Generate a presigned url

Create a presigned resource url. This allows to access the resource even if hosted in a private bucket simply by following the generated URL.

```
aws s3 presign s3://<bucket>/<path to resource> --expires-in 604800
```

For buckets created after It is necessary to provide an endpoint and a region.

```
aws s3 presign s3://<bucket>/<path to resource> --expires-in 604800 --region <region> --endpoint-url <endpoint url>
```

Commit message:

GITBOOK-643: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

cloud-aws/aws-commands.md, after:

# AWS Commands

## Authentication

### Access Key

Create Access Key

```
aws iam create-access-key    #for current user
aws iam create-access-key --user-name <user name>
```

Configure local variables

```
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<access key>"
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<key id>"
```

Alternatively these variables can be configured by running the following command on the local machine

```
aws configure
```

### Session Token

Create Session Token

```
aws sts get-session-token    #for current user
aws sts get-session-token --user-name <user name>
```

Configure local variables

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<access key>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<secret key>"
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN="<session token>"
```

### Assume Role

#### Gain temporary access to a resource

CLI Command. The session name is arbitrary and is requested only for logging purposes.

```
aws sts assume-role --role-arn <role arn> --role-session-name <session name>
```

Obtain temporary access to ECS instance. To be executed within the target instance

```
curl 169.254.170.2$AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI
```

Generate temporary credentials for Cloudshell instance. To be executed within the Cloudshell session. These credentials can be used to grant access to the shell to other users or services.

```
curl $AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_FULL_URI -H "X-aws-ec2-metadata-token: $AWS_CONTAINER_AUTHORIZATION_TOKEN" 
```

After obtaining the credentials update the local environment

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<access key>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<secret key>"
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN="<session token>"
```

## Access Control

### Accounts

Create account

```
aws iam create-login-profile --user <username>
```

Change password

```
aws iam update-login-profile --user <IAM> --password '<password>'
```

### Granting access

Set password for AWS Console Access. If not present the IAM User is not allowed to login to AWS Dashboard and use GUI based services

```
aws iam update-login-profile --user <IAM> --password '<password>'
```

### Manage Access Keys

Enable/disable keys

```
aws iam update-access-key --access-key-id <key id> --status Active
aws iam update-access-key --access-key-id <key id> --status Inactive
```

Delete key

```
aws iam delete-access-key --access-key-id <key id>
```

## Buckets

### Download all

From public bucket (No auth). Can be used to prove that a bucket is indeed public and can be accessed without authentication

```
aws s3 sync s3://<bucket> . --no-sign-request    #all
aws s3 sync s3://<bucket>/<path> . --no-sign-request    #all from specified path
```

With authentication. Requires to configure the shell on local machine with valid credentials. These credentials can be generated by following one of the techniques described in the [Authentication ](aws-commands.md#authentication)section.

```
aws s3 sync s3://<bucket> .    #all
aws s3 sync s3://<bucket>/<path> . #all from specified path
```

### Generate a presigned url

Create a presigned resource url. This allows to access the resource even if hosted in a private bucket simply by following the generated URL.

```
aws s3 presign s3://<bucket>/<path to resource> --expires-in 604800
```

For buckets created after It is necessary to provide an endpoint and a region.

```
aws s3 presign s3://<bucket>/<path to resource> --expires-in 604800 --region <region> --endpoint-url <endpoint url>
```
